Now we go to the page four, in this book, the page four, or, no, the page, not four, page five,
page five, we go here, here, page five, here, okay, and now we are in the, the piddate, piddate,
yeah, piddate, train of the mind,
or piddate, piddate of the, what's the name here, it's piddate. Piddate, yeah, train of the mind, p
iddate train of the mind, yeah, train of the mind, or is generally the teaching,
obtained in a hundred practice, known as the Renowned Sessions. So it's a Renowned Session. It's,
as I said, generally this is also essence, based upon the essence of the teachings of the Four
Noble Truths.
Not just only this is the best on the Four Noble Truths, Four Noble Truth is the first teaching of
our gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni Give, in Varanasi, or the now modern term called Sarnath,
the Dear Bhakti, give that.
But that teaching, that Four Noble Truth, the teaching is the foundation of all the teachings of
Buddha Give.
So Dukti teaching is also based on the Four Noble Truth. Four Noble Truth is not just a kind of
like, like, or just is like lower teachings, all that.
Because this Four Noble Truth is what? It's teachings on the cause and the result, or cause and
effect, cause and effect.
Samsara has cause and the samsara has effect, or it is a result called samsara, samsara, effect.
And Narana has cause and it has effect on that.
So Narana is completely based upon the cause and effect or system of, and the samsara is completely
based on the cause and effect.
Where cause and effect are? Working together is like magic display. That magic display is in
Buddhism or in Buddha teaching, named interdependent coordination, or interdependent, interconnect
ions.
Working, where interconnections are working, if you think or observe that, how it's observing,
there's nothing we can pinpoint. It's all magic display.
Where, for example, when we plant the seed, its explorer comes and all the result comes. But how
that happening? In the Buddha teaching, all those great big fellows of us said you cannot pinpoint
how shifting from the seed to the sprout.
Of course, we see the growth level, see, but subtle things, how shifting things. And that is also
not just happy only because of the seed and then the soil and fertilizers or whatever those four
elements, or five elements actually.
Not just happening. There's so many factors. We don't intersect. All supported to happen that. Each
of that has also so many articles.
So therefore, what great teacher Buddha Shakyamuni said, "Where things happening, the inter
connection is like magic display."
What great master Nagarjuna said, "When, because of why it's happening, is because of emptiness.
There's no substantial solid existing, solid, concrete, solid existing. Therefore, it's changing."
When it's changing, there is space. If there is no space, never going to change. But we don't
detect the space by our eyes. There is space. All that is, where it's coming, is the magical
display.
This is what the external things, all that. So all that, everything, samsara, is called in the
condition and it is resolved, happening as magically through the connection, interconnection or
interdependence.
And then nirvana realization and the display and all that nirvana displays in the sambhagaya
display, pure land is also cause and condition and effect.
That also happens as magical display. There's no substantially solid entity at all, both in samsara
and nirvana.
So that is the foundation of the great teacher Buddha gave, gave, gave the teaching. This teaching,
poor Noble Truth, the teaching is known as the extraordinary teachings of the great teachers, not
other great masters or the other schools, different schools.
They're not explaining, explaining where things are happening, how that is, the magical display,
all that.
And so therefore, this realization, this, for example, in this case, this seven train of the mind,
the force of five is mainly focused on the teachings, on the post-Nova Truth, among the poor Noble
Truth.
Suffering Truth, cause of Suffering Truth.
This last three, three is mainly explaining of the third and fourth Noble Truth.
That's what that is. Cessation Truth and Path Truth. This, this picked the train of the mind, the
liberation were never reversed. Back to the samsara or the, like, it is smallpox, it cools from the
smallpox, is Cessation Truth.
Cessation means what? In Sanskrit world, that is nirvana. What is it? Karma and emotions are ceased
. Cessation, that is.
And then, here translated, liberate, liberation. Also sometimes, in Sanskrit, this cessation is
known as mokcha. Mokcha, that means, again, liberated.
Liberated from where? Liberated from the emotions, such as ignorance, attachment, anger, and
jealous, hated thought, and ego-cling combination, were liberated.
So that is Cessation. And then, now third, no, not third, but sixth and seventh is Path Truth.
From this own world, all the way to the, under the, under all teaching, is Path Truth. Path Truth.
How to get this Cessation Truth, how to get liberated, liberation, that which never returned back
to the samsara or never coming back as a cure from the chorus, or smallpox, because of following
Path Truth.
Path Truth. That is whole teaching is really Path Truth. That, so therefore, for example, all the
teachings of the nirvana teaching is Path Truth, is all Path Truth.
And each explainer of the realization, the fulfillment, all that, is a Cessation Truth. We change.
Even Dokti teachings is, of course, Dokti teaching is known as Result Yanas.
Result Yana, not Causal Yanas. Result Yanas. But even though it is a Result Yana, to reach that
Result Cessation, you have to practice. You have to meditate.
So practicing, following the teaching, and stalking from the lineage, following that is Path Truth.
Then that will bring the realization of the Cessation Truth, or the enlightenment, or rainbow
bodies.
So that is generally the idea of this. Then yesterday I mentioned that this, this result of the
liberation, I said there are three liberations.
That is Shravaka Yana, and the essay is the Path of Bodhayana, and the Bodhisattva Yanas. Those are
three liberations.
But among that three liberations, which is forever. Which liberation is forever? Ever is Buddhahood
. Buddhahood is forever. There is no change at all.
And for this Shravaka liberation, and the Path of Bodha liberation, even you are not returning back
to the samsara, but still, according to Mahayana, you have to follow more practices.
Because you are not completely purified all the obscurations. And what that means is all the obsc
urations.
I'm sure you know, many of you already know, I know, know that. There is two obscurations in the
teaching mentioned.
Two obscurations. Emotion obscurations, and knowledge obscurations.
This is Shravaka Yana, and the Path of Bodhayana, purify the emotion obscurations.
Knowledge obscurations is not completely purified. Knowledge obscurations is not completely
purified.
Therefore, what the achievement or realization of Arhatahood is not something that forever.
Again, or discover the enlightenment, true nature, exactly as it is, you have to follow the Path of
the Mahayana.
Mahayana, and then will reach the enlightenment, exactly as a Buddha.
Therefore, there are supposed true liberation, even though liberated from the samsara and negative
emotions,
but there is still knowledge obscurations. What is knowledge obscurations?
That is generally, knowledge obscurations is. Knowledge obscurations is the foundation of old obsc
urations.
Knowledge obscurations ever use the word clinging. Clinging is knowledge obscurations. Clinging.
So for example, Shravaka Yana and the Path of Bodhayana, they have still clinging to the nirvana.
At least they're clinging to the nirvana. They like to be certain attitude, I like to be free from
the suffering,
free from the samsara. I'm not going to associate with the samsara. I'm not going to associate with
the world.
Because now I'm going to be peaceful myself, or be peaceful.
That attitude, which is, they fulfill the goal, but still attachment, still grasping, clinging.
So that is, what is knowledge obscuration is clinging, grasping.
And the great master, Mohanur Mooji, all the great master mentioned,
what is the distinction between the emotion obscurations and knowledge obscurations?
Emotion obscurations is just a particular selected obscurations, particular.
And the knowledge is general, all.
They use the example, emotion obscuration is, for example, if you say general, what does that mean?
General. What is the name of the tree? For example, tree.
Tree is the name of every tree. It's not just one tree.
And then what is possible? Juniper. Juniper is one tree, selected tree, among all the hundreds or
thousand trees.
So it's a juniper. And similarly, emotion obscuration is like selected, particular, as like unipers
.
Juniper trees, among all the emotions. And knowledge obscurations, all obscurations widen.
And what that is, a pinpoint to that. And as I said, see, it's clinging, attachment, the clinging.
Clinging is the fundamental source of all the emotions. Emotions.
Yeah. So that's because it's kind of a rough idea. A rough idea is that. So that's it.
And now, also, that is really about that. So therefore, when we practice the meditation,
and with the confidence, with the joy,